This course content discusses high-performance in the Cloud,
which is not to be confused with high performance computing in the Cloud.
High performance computing is also known as supercomputing,
and the terms can be used interchangeably.
High performance computing is a process of
aggregating computer power and harnessing all of that
compute potential to solve large and complex problems
in fields like medicine, engineering, and finance.
Problems that would take hours, weeks,
or even years on a desktop,
only take minutes, days,
and weeks on a supercomputer.
They sustain high-performance by using each nodes computing resources concurrently.
Computers or nodes are organized into groups called clusters and configured
to communicate and work together through software managed communication networks.
As you can imagine,
managing clusters with hundreds of nodes is a big job that
requires personnel with specialized IT knowledge and experience.
In a research environment,
you won't find many scientists with a time and desire to manage the supercomputer.
They really want to focus on their area of study.
Amazon has a managed supercomputer service that matches
utilization needs to run the most compute intensive workloads.
This isn't a course on high performance computing
and we'll only be touching on it briefly.
But it needs to be included in the conversation about performance in the Cloud,
because supercomputing really is the ultimate and
highly scaled ultra high performance computing in the Cloud.